The word Polymorphism is a combination of two Greek words, Poly means many and Morph means forms.
For example, take the Shape Class. The exact shape you choose can be anything. It can be a rectangle, a circle, a polygon or a diamond. So, these are all shapes but their properties are different. This is called Polymorphism.



method overrdiing
Method overriding is the process of redefining a parent class’s method in a subclass.Params must be same in case of method overriding.

Overriding is done so that a child class can give its own implementation to a method which is already provided by the parent class.

In this case:

The method in the parent class is called overridden method.
The methods in the child classes are called overriding methods.
We have already seen the implementation of the getArea() method in the previous lesson, which depicts the concept of overriding. The highlighted portions show where method overriding is happening.

Let’s have a look!




Advantages of the Method Overriding #
Method overriding is very useful in OOP. Some of its advantages are stated below:

The derived classes can give their own specific implementations to inherited methods without modifying the parent class methods.

For any method, a child class can use the implementation in the parent class or make its own implementation.]



Key Features of the Method Overriding #
Here are some key features of the Method Overriding:

Method Overriding needs inheritance and there should be at least one derived class.

Derived class/es must have the same declaration, i.e., access modifier, name, same parameters and same return type of the method as of the base class.

The method in the derived class/es must have different implementation from each other.

The method in the base class must need to be overridden in the derived class.

Base class/method must not be declared as the Final class.



In dynamic polymorsphsim we use the reference of the base class. Thegor eg
Shape s1=new Circle();
Shape s2=new Rectanngle();